.\"	$OpenBSD: ssh-askpass.man,v 1.2 2000/06/26 17:31:32 marc Exp $
.\"
.Dd May 17, 2000
.Dt SSH-ASKPASS 1 
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-askpass
.Nd X11-based pass-phrase dialog for OpenSSH
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is an X11-based pass-phrase dialog for use with OpenSSH. These
dialogs are intended to be called from the ssh-add program and not
invoked directly.
.Pp
.Nm
supports all standard Toolkit command line arguments (See
.Xr X 1 ) . 
.Pp
The features of x11-ssh-askpass are as follows:
.Bl -dash 
.It 
Configurable via the standard X resource mechanism 
.br
(
.Pa /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/app-defaults , 
.Pa ~/.Xdefaults , 
.Nm xrdb , 
etc.).
.It 
Require only stock X11 libraries (libXt, libX11, libSM, libICE).
.It 
Can be configured to grab the keyboard and/or pointer (grabs the
keyboard by default, not the pointer).
.El
.Pp
The user interface is somewhat different than most password/pass-phrase
dialogs and more similar to the X11-based pass-phrase dialog that
accompanies the regular SSH distribution.  Instead of a text field that
fills with asterisks or some other character as the user enters the
pass-phrase, a series of LED-like areas light up one-by-one with each
pass-phrase character entered, beginning from the left-hand edge of the
dialog. When they reach the right-hand edge, they go dark one-by-one
again, and so on.  This gives the user feedback that pass-phrase
characters have been entered, but does not provide onlookers with a cue
as to the length of the pass-phrase.
.Pp
Pressing the 
.Sq OK
button accepts the pass-phrase (even if it is empty),
which is printed on the standard output, and the dialog exits with a
status of zero (success).  Pressing the 
.Sq Cancel button discards the
pass-phrase, and the dialog exits with non-zero status.
.Pp
The following keystrokes work as expected:
.Bl -hang -width indent
.It  Bq Backspace 
or 
.Bq Delete
Erase previous character
.It Bq Control+U
or 
.Bq Control+X
Erase entire pass-phrase
.It  Bq Enter , 
.Bq Control+M , 
or 
.Bq Control+J
Accept pass-phrase (OK)
.It  [Escape]
Discard pass-phrase (Cancel)
.El
.Sh WIDGETS
The main window of 
.Nm ssh-askpass 
has the widget hierarchy indicated below. The widget class name is
given first, followed by the instance name.

.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Dialog dialog
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Indicator indicator
.It Button okButton 
.It Button cancelButton
.El
.El
.Sh RESOURCES
The following resources are used to customize the application
globally: 
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm grabKeyboard ( No class Cm GrabKeyboard )
specifies if the application should grab the keyboard. Default value:
.Dq True . 
.It Cm grabPointer ( No class Cm GrabPointer )
specifies if the application should grab the pointer. Default value:
.Dq False . 
.It Cm grabServer ( No class Cm GrabServer)
specifies if the application should grab the server. Default value:
.Dq False . 
.El
.Pp
The following resources are recognized by the Dialog widget:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm title ( No class Cm Title )
The title of the application as specified to the window manager.
.It Cm label ( No class Cm Label )
The label displayed above the led indicators.
.It Cm font ( No class Cm Font )
The font to be used to display the label.
.El
.Pp
The following Resources are recognized by the button and indicator
widgets and the main widget to customize the 3D appearance:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm foreground ( No class Cm Foreground )
The foreground color of the widget. This is the text color of the
label for buttons and dialog and the color of the active led for the
indicator. 
.It Cm background ( No class Cm Background )
The background color of the widget. In the case of the indicator this
is the color of the inactive led. 
.It Cm topShadowColor ( No class Cm TopShadowColor )
The color used by the  sides of the widget exposed to the light (top
and left)
.It Cm bottomShadowColor ( No class Cm BottomShadowColor )
The color used by the sides of the widget in the shadow (right and
bottom). 
.It Cm shadowThickness ( No class Cm ShadowTickness )
The thickness of the 3D border of the widget
.It Cm borderColor ( No class Cm BorderColor )
The color of the border around the widget. 
.It Cm borderWidth ( No class Cm BorderWidth )
The width of the border around the widget.
.It Cm horizontalSpacing ( No class Cm HorizontalSpacing )
The space to leave on left and right sides of the widget.
.It Cm verticalSpacing ( No class Cm VerticalSpacing )
The space to leave on top and bottom sides of the widget.
.El
.Pp
Each button uses the following resources to customize its label:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm label ( No class Cm Label )
the string to display on the button.
.It Cm font ( No class Cm Font )
the font to use for this button label.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pa /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/SshAskpass
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr X 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr ssh-agent 1
.Sh LICENSE
Some portions of x11-ssh-askpass are derived directly or indirectly
from portions of xscreensaver by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, while
others are original works.
.Pp
xscreensaver, Copyright \(co 1991-1999 Jamie Zawinski 
.Aq jwz@jwz.org
.Pp
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.Pp
The remaining portions fall under the following copyright and license:
.Pp
.Nm
by Jim Knoble 
.Aq jmknoble@pobox.com
Copyright \(co 1999 Jim Knoble
.Pp  
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.
